hello everyone and welcome to today's
After Effects scripting tutorial today
we're going to be taking a look at how
to create a script template combo
essentially what this means is that you
have an After Effects project with
several cool presets and you want to use
a script to better customize these you
don't want to have to have the user dig
into the project file adjust the files
manually to adjust the design we want to
have a script that will automatically
dive deep into it and automatically
change things for us so today we're
going to be integrating the script here
into this lower third project file I
have here it's very straightforward and
we have three different lower third
subtitles using different fonts and
animations and colors so what we can do
is use our script to select one of our
presets let's say in this case we choose
number two and then we can choose what
we want to change the title and subtitle
text to in this case I'll just say hello
there obviously it's a lower third so
it's not usual to put this but it's just
an example so now we can click on the
create button and it's going to generate
a new composition using that style and
it's going to use our text of hello
there so essentially the script is
relatively simple but we're going to be
going over a lot of concepts today that
are scalable to larger projects and
larger scripts
alright so to get started we're just
going to launch extend script and we'll
be writing roughly 60 or 50 lines of
code today so we'll start a new
JavaScript file and the first step is to
go ahead and create our UI so first off
let's just create a window to put
everything into so I'll create a
variable called main window and set this
equal to a new window and inside the
parentheses the first parameter it's
going to be a pallet window and the
second parameter is going to be the name
which let's just do scripts templates
and then the third is we'll just put
undefined for the size and position then
for all of the groups we're about to
create so we'll have a preset group a
title group and a subtitle group we want
to have them go from top to bottom now
in order to do that we need to set our
window to be orientated as a column
which will go from top
bottom if it was a row it would go from
the left to right so we'll grab our main
window and set the orientation equal to
column now we want to create a group
like I said for each of our sort of
inputs here the first one is for presets
where we're gonna have preset text and
this preset drop-down so we'll start off
we'll just say preset group is equal to
our main window and on our main window
we're just going to add a group
undefined size and position and we'll
call it preset group now same thing as
we just previously did we want to set
the orientation so that we can
specifically define which way the
elements are going to be set so we want
everything to go from left to right we
need to set the orientation to row so
I'll grab my preset group and set the
orientation to row now we can go ahead
and start creating our elements the
first thing we're gonna do is add this
text here now oftentimes in extend
script for After Effects specifically
when creating UI you might notice I
usually don't create a variable for
static text like this but in this case I
want to be able to have control over the
size of all of my elements that way I
can move them make them large or smaller
and line things up for example title and
subtitle aren't the same length but I've
made their sizes the same so that our
two text boxes here will line up as well
so we'll create a variable for our
static text for preset text and we're
going to add this to our preset group
and we're adding some static text with
undefined size which we will call
presets then like I said we want to set
up a custom size so I'll grab my preset
text dot size and we'll need to set this
equal to a width and a height the width
let's just do 50 and height 20 or 25
should be good next up we're gonna need
this drop-down list now there are two
ways you can do this if you have a large
template you want to create a custom
function that searches through and finds
the compositions or files you need what
I mean by this is we would need to go
through all of the items in our After
Effects project and look for anything
called lower third or that has
were third in the title in my case I
only have three presets so I'm just
going to hand code them but if you have
a loft I recommend making a folder like
I don't know preset comps all of your
preset compositions and then you can put
them in there and easily search through
for this pre comps folder and everything
you know that's in here will be part of
your project so hopefully that makes a
little bit of sense we're essentially
going to hard-code it just because we
have a few presets so it will create a
variable called preset drop-down and
we'll set this again equal to a preset
group and we're going to add a drop-down
list undefined size and for the
parameters we need to put in brackets
you basically need to give it an array
of values to display here in this case
it just needs to be strings of text so
I'm going to just custom type this as
lower third one and that add a comma for
the next one lower third two and lower
third three now I'll turn on word wrap
here alright so now let's go ahead and
grab our main window and Center it and
then main window dot show this is just
so we can have a nice little view of
what's going on here I'll run this in
extend script so it doesn't delete this
preview we have here so as you can see
we have our title and we have our
presets and our drop-down but you can
see nothing is selected so we need to
specifically set the selection so I'll
grab my preset drop-down dot selection
and set it equal to zero and this will
go ahead and select the first value by
default alright so now we just need to
move down and work on the title and
subtitle groups these are going to be
very similar to each other so we'll call
one the title group I'll set this equal
to our main window and again adding a
group from the fun-sized and we'll call
it the title group then just like before
we'll grab our current group and we'll
set the orientation to row so everything
goes from left to right and then
similarly to above we're going to want
to make a variable for our
texts so we can custom set the size so
say title text is equal to our title
group we're going to add some static
text to it and the static text is going
to say title then I'll grab my title
text variable and grab the size and in
this case let's go a little bit bigger
maybe 80 pixels by 20 pixels and now
let's go ahead and add our edit text box
where we can have user inputs so for
this I'll just say title edit text and
we'll set this equal to again our title
group add and we'll add some edit text
and you can put whatever you want in
here you could say name or first name
and last name I didn't want to put title
because it would just say title title so
I just went with first name and then
same thing I want to go ahead and set
the size for these as well because they
are going to be a little bit different
in size so for this I'm actually gonna
do let's do a t20 for the edit text and
then for any regular text 50 by 20 one
useful organizational tip I should
mention I'm gonna have a lot of groups
to create and lots of elements I like to
use very specific naming conventions so
in this example we have our main prefix
here which is title which we're going to
use for everything title is sort of
telling us which group this belongs to
so this is part of the title area we're
gonna make a group then we're gonna have
in the title area some text and then
after that we're gonna have in the title
area some edit text and this will just
help you to avoid confusion in the
future when you have large scripts so
now that we've done the title group we
just need to basically copy and paste
this to make the subtitle group now
obviously copying and pasting this is
going to produce the same exact group so
we need to change things up just a tiny
bit what I'm gonna do is select my
entire second pasted title group here
and click ctrl or command F this will
bring up the find and replace or search
feature
you can also go up to edit Find and
Replace and inside of here what we're
gonna do is type in the word title we
want to grab we want to find all the
title
instances and replace it with subtitle
but instead of searching through the
entire document
we want to search through just our
current selection and our current
selection is this right here so let's
replace all and it lets us know that 10
changes were made and if now if we look
in our group here we have subtitle group
subtitle group subtitle text we've
changed everything the only thing that a
mist would be it lowercased
this text here so I'll fix that so now
if we go ahead and run it we now have
our two groups and they all have unique
variables let's go ahead and change this
to last name here and lastly let's
create our button so for our create
button I'm not going to create its own
button group because it's very simple in
just one element so what I'm going to do
is actually just add it to the main
window so I'll grab our main window and
I'll add a button undefined size and
we'll just sake it's called creates so
now the script UI is basically done and
now we can go forward and program it so
for any script we need to have something
that actuates all of our events what
does the user going to do that triggers
it to create our lower third well they
need to click on the create button so we
need to grab our we actually need to
define the create button here I don't
know why I didn't do that but we need to
grab our create button and below where
we show our window we'll grab a create
button and say on click is to go to a
function anything we put inside of here
is gonna happen when we when we click on
the create button so if I say alert time
to create and I click on the create
button it's gonna tell me exactly the
code inside of here so let's go ahead
and create all of our code here the
first thing we're going to do is create
a undo group so I'll say app begin undo
group and below that app top to end undo
group what this means is any code we put
between these lines here is going to be
easily undoable anytime we execute this
script we can press ctrl-z and it's
going to undo this and up here we can
also add a custom name in the begin part
we'll just call this lower third
generation
and then once we run the scripts we can
easily click on edits and it will undo
creating the lower third or lower third
generation all right so now we can just
go from top to bottom down the script
and figure out what we need to do the
first thing is we need to figure out
what preset we need to look for and thus
create a composition for the user so
what we're gonna do is we need to grab
what did they select on the drop-down
what we can do is use a switch statement
and say if it was the if they selected
the very first thing we know is lower
third one if they selected the second
thing it's 2 or we can say grab their
current selection and grab the text
inside so what I can do is alert preset
drop-down selection and this is going to
give us the actual text but if I say
selection dot index it'll give us the
well index so in this case 0 1 & 3 & 2
so we can either use just the numbers
themselves from the selection or the
selection text I'm gonna go and grab the
selection text because I think that's
easier in the previous example I had
used the the index and just said if it's
0 said 2 lower third one but I think
it's better to scale it with this one to
get the actual text so first thing we'll
do is define a new comp so we need to
tell the script that we're going to
create a variable for the users new comp
so we'll just call it the user comp and
we'll set this equal to get preset comp
and inside of get preset comp we're
going to want to grab our preset
drop-down dot selection this is going to
be a function we'll set up here in a
second that's going to look through all
of the items in our project and look for
the preset name in this case lower third
one if it finds a comp with a name of
that then that's what we're looking for
and that's going to be set to the user
comp but we don't want to just grab the
original one and edit it we want to
duplicate it so we have a new copy and
then edit it so once we get our preset
comp this is going to return a
composition we want to save duplicate
and this is going to duplicate so now we
can set up
our gig preset comp function and the
only argument we need is the name and
now all the do is we're just going to
loop through our entire project so of
our I is equal to 1 I is less than or
equal to our app top project enum items
and then we'll increment I by 1 and what
we'll say is if app top project item I
the current item if it's name is equal
to our name and we also want to check is
it a comp so zap top project item I an
instance of a comp ID if both of these
cases are true if it matches the name
that we selected and it's a composition
this is surely the preset we're looking
for so we're going to want to return a
project item I hopefully that makes
sense a nice quick little function to
get any composition you want so now if
we go ahead into our create button on
click here I want to alert our user comp
name just to see if we're getting it
here I'll run this let's select lower
third one and click on create 2,000
years later all right so I've just spent
a long time figuring out what the error
was and it turns out I'm an idiot and
JavaScript is a pain in the butt so what
happened was inside of our UI our lower
third says lower third one lower there
two lower third three what I forgot is
that in our project file it's lower
thirds 0 1 0 2 and 0 3 we use this
because we're assuming in the future
we're going to have more presets so
finally we can grab our preset drop-down
dot selection so what we need to do is
just go in and change our drop-down
values and that was the easiest fix that
took me 30 minutes of recording to
figure out so now if we get our user
comp
and after we gotten that value will
alert user comp name ok let's run the
script and look for lower third one as
you can see we get lower third one
awesome now we need to make sure we have
on duplicate and now we're going to grab
our user comp and we want to set the
name to something so we'll just say
lower
for a user and now let's go ahead and
run it and just make sure everything's
working relatively smoothly yep so now
we've created a lower third that's
duplicated from lower third one and now
we just need to go into this composition
adjust some of the text and for our
purposes today that's going to be
everything so below changing our user
comp name what we'll do is go ahead and
change this title and subtitle text what
I'm going to do is just loop through all
of the layers in here and if I find
something called title I'm going to
change it to my title edit text if I
find a layer called subtitle I'm going
to change it to my subtitle text so say
VAR I is equal to 1 for eyes less than
or equal to our user comp number of
layers or num layers I plus plus then
we're gonna have two if statements one
for each of our texts the first if
statement is going to check if the user
comp dot layer I or the current layer if
the name is equal to title and then I'll
just copy and paste that into the second
if statement and change this to subtitle
now again be careful of naming
conventions as we just had a problem
with just adding a 0 to the name of the
file make sure as you can see here we
have all all uppercase and all lowercase
make sure you know exactly what you're
looking for because that can cause a lot
of headache now that we've identified
whether or not this current layer is
title or subtitle we can now assume that
it's a text layer I'm going to assume
that this has a source text property
that I can click and go ahead and change
all the text of so inside of our title
if statement here I'm going to grab our
user comm player I and set the property
called source text as a set value and
we're gonna set this equal to our title
edit text so title edit text text and
then I'm going to copy and paste this
into the subtitle section and I'm just
going to change title edit text to
subtitle edit text like I said earlier
using really good naming conventions
will make coding in the future a lot
easier so now let's go ahead and run the
script and see if it's working
this time I'm going to go ahead and use
lower third number three here and make
sure we run a fresh instance of the
scripts lower third three and let's go
ahead and just use my name here and
click on create and now if we open up
this composition and go ahead and
preview it really quick you can see it's
now updated the comp and our text now
one last thing we need to do is open up
the user comp by opening it and the
viewer and this is just a nice thing for
the user that will automatically open it
up for them so let's go ahead and run it
one last time here let's use lower third
two this time I will just say test text
now it's going to load up that comp for
us update the text and we are off to the
races
alright guys that's gonna do it for
today's After Effects scripting tutorial
I hope you enjoyed if you have any
questions or comments leave them down
below if you enjoyed the video be sure
to smash that thumbs up button for more
videos and be sure to hit that little
bell icon right next to it to be
notified of new uploads coming out at
noon MST every Monday and Thursday
thanks again for watching guys I hope
you enjoyed and make sure you guys have
a wonderful day